content/docs/welcome-guide/create/creating-projects-using-project-manager.md, before:

---
linktitle: Creating Projects Using Project Manager
title: Creating Projects Using O3DE Project Manager
description: Learn how to create and build Open 3D Engine (O3DE) projects from the default project template using the Project Manager tool.
weight: 100
toc: true
---

This tutorial provides an introduction to project configuration and building in **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**. The instructions here and in the video will guide you through the following steps:

* Configure the **Project Manager** engine settings.
* Create a new O3DE project.
* Build the O3DE project.

At the end of the tutorial, you'll have a new O3DE project based on the default project template, ready to open in **O3DE Editor**.

{{< youtube-width id="_BhkXOBDYGA?start=142" title="Installing O3DE for Windows - Create a Project" >}}

## Prerequisites

The following instructions assume that you have:

* O3DE installed or built as an [SDK engine](/docs/user-guide/appendix/glossary#sdk-engine) on your computer. For help, refer to [Set up Open 3D Engine](/docs/welcome-guide/setup).
* Met all hardware and software requirements listed in [O3DE System Requirements](/docs/welcome-guide/requirements).

{{< note >}}
If you set up O3DE from GitHub and chose the [source engine](/docs/user-guide/appendix/glossary#source-engine) build type, you need to create a project from the command line and build it before you'll have a version of **Project Manager** that will work with your new project. Follow the instructions in [Creating Projects Using the CLI](../creating-projects-using-cli) to create a project for your source engine.
{{< /note >}}

## Launch Project Manager

1. Either launch Project Manager from an icon on your desktop, or open a file browser or command line window on your computer and navigate to your O3DE engine directory. Locate and launch the O3DE **Project Manager** application, `o3de.exe`, from `<install-directory>/bin/<platform>/profile/Default`.

    {{< important >}}
If you built an SDK engine from source using the `INSTALL` target, make sure you launch the Project Manager and other tools from the **install** directory, _not_ the build directory in the engine root. For example, the Windows install directory will typically end in `/bin/Windows/profile/Default`.
    {{< /important >}}

## Configure the engine settings

If this is the first time you've used Project Manager to create a project, then check and configure the O3DE engine settings before you create and build the project.

1. Choose the **Engine** tab near the top of Project Manager.

1. Review the default locations and update as desired, taking into consideration that the **3rd Party Software Folder** and a typical project located in the **Default Projects Folder** each require 10 - 20 GB of free space on a computer. O3DE uses your user directory in all the locations by default.

    If you set up and built O3DE from GitHub, you can set the **3rd Party Software Folder** to the same packages directory you created when you built the engine (for example, `C:\o3de-packages`), to avoid downloading the same packages again when the project builds.

    ![Default Projects Folder and 3rd Party Software Folder updated in engine settings](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-engine-settings-adjusted.png)

1. Go back to the **Projects** tab when you have finished updating the engine settings.

## Create a new O3DE project

1. In Project Manager, choose **Create a Project**. This will guide you through creating a new project, starting from the default project template. It will also register the O3DE engine, if you haven't already registered it.

    ![Choose "Create a Project"](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-no-projects.png)

    If you have already registered one or more projects, open the **New Project** dropdown menu instead and choose **Create New Project**.

    ![Or choose "New Project - Create New Project"](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-menu-create-new-project.png)

1. Under **Project name**, give your project a name. You can use up to 64 letters, numbers, underscores ('_'), or hyphens ('-'). Spaces are not allowed.

1. If you want to change the project location, under **Project Location**, choose the folder icon, and then use the **Browse** dialog box to choose a new location. If needed, you can create a new project folder. The folder that you choose becomes the project root directory.

    ![Create a New Project - Project Details screen](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-create-project.png)

1. Under **Select a Project Template**, you can choose a project template with a pre-configured selection of Gems. You can modify the list of Gems enabled for your project by choosing the **Configure Gems** button. This tutorial uses the default template and its pre-configured selection of common Gems.

1. Choose **Create Project** to create the project files in the project location you selected. This also registers your project in the O3DE manifest, located at `<user-folder>/.o3de/o3de_manifest.json`.

## Build the O3DE project

You are now ready to build the project from Project Manager.

1. Inside your project's icon box, open the **Build Project** dropdown menu and choose **Build Now**.

    ![Choose Build Project](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-build-project.png)

1. After choosing **Yes** in the next dialog box to confirm that you are ready to build your project, the build will begin.

    {{< note >}}
The first build may take some time to complete if the required third-party packages need to be downloaded.
    {{< /note >}}

    When the build completes, you can find the project binaries in your project directory under `build/<platform>/bin/profile`.
    
    {{< note >}}
On Windows, if you have multiple versions of Visual Studio installed, Project Manager will build with the highest version detected. To specify the version of Visual Studio, use the CMake environment variable `CMAKE_GENERATOR_PLATFORM` with a [value from the CMake generator list](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#visual-studio-generators).
    {{< /note >}}

    {{< note >}}
On Windows, if you have multiple versions of Visual Studio installed, Project Manager will build with the highest version detected. To specify the version of Visual Studio, use the CMake environment variable `CMAKE_GENERATOR_PLATFORM` with a [value from the CMake generator list](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#visual-studio-generators).
    {{< /note >}}

1. To open your built project in the Editor, move your pointer inside your project's icon box and choose **Open Editor**.

For more information about project configuration and building, refer to the [Project Configuration](/docs/user-guide/project-config) and [Build](/docs/user-guide/build) sections of the User Guide.

Commit message:

Adds documentation for script-only mode and templates (#2536)
* Adds documentation for script-only mode and templates

* The welcome guide now links to the new page about templates, which
  is a list of which templates are available and what they do.
* The new templates page includes instructions on how to use non-project
  templates.
* The new script-only 'Quick Start' page explains what a script-only
  project is, how to create one, and how to use them, as well as
  includes technical details about how the system works.
* Fixed a capitalization and plural typo

Signed-off-by: Nicholas Lawson <70027408+nick-l-o3de@users.noreply.github.com>

content/docs/welcome-guide/create/creating-projects-using-project-manager.md, after:

---
linktitle: Creating Projects Using Project Manager
title: Creating Projects Using O3DE Project Manager
description: Learn how to create and build Open 3D Engine (O3DE) projects from the default project template using the Project Manager tool.
weight: 100
toc: true
---

This tutorial provides an introduction to project configuration and building in **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**. The instructions here and in the video will guide you through the following steps:

* Configure the **Project Manager** engine settings.
* Create a new O3DE project.
* Build the O3DE project.

At the end of the tutorial, you'll have a new O3DE project based on the default project template, ready to open in **O3DE Editor**.

{{< youtube-width id="_BhkXOBDYGA?start=142" title="Installing O3DE for Windows - Create a Project" >}}

## Prerequisites

The following instructions assume that you have:

* O3DE installed or built as an [SDK engine](/docs/user-guide/appendix/glossary#sdk-engine) on your computer. For help, refer to [Set up Open 3D Engine](/docs/welcome-guide/setup).
* Met all hardware and software requirements listed in [O3DE System Requirements](/docs/welcome-guide/requirements).

{{< note >}}
If you set up O3DE from GitHub and chose the [source engine](/docs/user-guide/appendix/glossary#source-engine) build type, you need to create a project from the command line and build it before you'll have a version of **Project Manager** that will work with your new project. Follow the instructions in [Creating Projects Using the CLI](../creating-projects-using-cli) to create a project for your source engine.
{{< /note >}}

## Launch Project Manager

1. Either launch Project Manager from an icon on your desktop, or open a file browser or command line window on your computer and navigate to your O3DE engine directory. Locate and launch the O3DE **Project Manager** application, `o3de.exe`, from `<install-directory>/bin/<platform>/profile/Default`.

    {{< important >}}
If you built an SDK engine from source using the `INSTALL` target, make sure you launch the Project Manager and other tools from the **install** directory, _not_ the build directory in the engine root. For example, the Windows install directory will typically end in `/bin/Windows/profile/Default`.
    {{< /important >}}

## Configure the engine settings

If this is the first time you've used Project Manager to create a project, then check and configure the O3DE engine settings before you create and build the project.

1. Choose the **Engine** tab near the top of Project Manager.

1. Review the default locations and update as desired, taking into consideration that the **3rd Party Software Folder** and a typical project located in the **Default Projects Folder** each require 10 - 20 GB of free space on a computer. O3DE uses your user directory in all the locations by default.

    If you set up and built O3DE from GitHub, you can set the **3rd Party Software Folder** to the same packages directory you created when you built the engine (for example, `C:\o3de-packages`), to avoid downloading the same packages again when the project builds.

    ![Default Projects Folder and 3rd Party Software Folder updated in engine settings](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-engine-settings-adjusted.png)

1. Go back to the **Projects** tab when you have finished updating the engine settings.

## Create a new O3DE project

1. In Project Manager, choose **Create a Project**. This will guide you through creating a new project, starting from the default project template. It will also register the O3DE engine, if you haven't already registered it.

    ![Choose "Create a Project"](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-no-projects.png)

    If you have already registered one or more projects, open the **New Project** dropdown menu instead and choose **Create New Project**.

    ![Or choose "New Project - Create New Project"](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-menu-create-new-project.png)

1. Under **Project name**, give your project a name. You can use up to 64 letters, numbers, underscores ('_'), or hyphens ('-'). Spaces are not allowed.

1. If you want to change the project location, under **Project Location**, choose the folder icon, and then use the **Browse** dialog box to choose a new location. If needed, you can create a new project folder. The folder that you choose becomes the project root directory.

    ![Create a New Project - Project Details screen](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-create-project.png)

1. Under **Select a Project Template**, you can choose a project template with a pre-configured selection of Gems. You can modify the list of Gems enabled for your project by choosing the **Configure Gems** button. This tutorial uses the default template and its pre-configured selection of common Gems.   Other templates are available.  For more information about templates, and which templates are available, refer to the documentation on [Templates](/content/docs/user-guide/build/templates.md) in the User Guide.

1. Choose **Create Project** to create the project files in the project location you selected. This also registers your project in the O3DE manifest, located at `<user-folder>/.o3de/o3de_manifest.json`.

## Build the O3DE project

You are now ready to build the project from Project Manager.

1. Inside your project's icon box, open the **Build Project** dropdown menu and choose **Build Now**.

    ![Choose Build Project](/images/welcome-guide/project-manager-build-project.png)

1. After choosing **Yes** in the next dialog box to confirm that you are ready to build your project, the build will begin.

    {{< note >}}
The first build may take some time to complete if the required third-party packages need to be downloaded.
    {{< /note >}}

    When the build completes, you can find the project binaries in your project directory under `build/<platform>/bin/profile`.
    
    {{< note >}}
On Windows, if you have multiple versions of Visual Studio installed, Project Manager will build with the highest version detected. To specify the version of Visual Studio, use the CMake environment variable `CMAKE_GENERATOR_PLATFORM` with a [value from the CMake generator list](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#visual-studio-generators).
    {{< /note >}}

    {{< note >}}
On Windows, if you have multiple versions of Visual Studio installed, Project Manager will build with the highest version detected. To specify the version of Visual Studio, use the CMake environment variable `CMAKE_GENERATOR_PLATFORM` with a [value from the CMake generator list](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#visual-studio-generators).
    {{< /note >}}

1. To open your built project in the Editor, move your pointer inside your project's icon box and choose **Open Editor**.

For more information about project configuration and building, refer to the [Project Configuration](/docs/user-guide/project-config) and [Build](/docs/user-guide/build) sections of the User Guide.
