content/docs/contributing/_index.md, before:

---
linkTitle: Contribute
menuTitle: Contribute
title: Contributor Guide for Open 3D Engine
description: Want to contribute to O3DE? This guide will get you started with code and documentation contributions.
weight: 100
menu_uuid: contributing
guide_img: "/images/contributing/guide_img.png"
primary: false
---

Have you ever wanted to contribute to an open-source 3D development engine?

This guide will help you understand the overall organization of the **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** project, and direct you to the best places to get started contributing to the code and documentation. You'll be able to pick up issues, write code to fix them, and get your work reviewed and merged.

|  Section                          | Description                                    |
|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| [Roadmaps](roadmaps) | Stay up-to-date with the latest development updates and find out what's coming next in the O3DE roadmaps. |
| [Contribute to O3DE Code](to-code/) | Learn how to contribute to O3DE's codebase.  |
| [Contribute to O3DE Documentation](to-docs/) | Learn how to contribute to O3DE's technical documentation. |
| [Contribute to O3DE Security](security/) | Learn how to keep O3DE secure. |
| [Versioning and Release Terminology](release-versioning-and-terms) | Understand the code and binary package versioning format and release terminology. |
| [Code of Conduct](code-of-conduct) | Learn what our expectations for community engagement are. |

## Related sections

|  Section                          | Description                                    |
|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| [Open 3D Foundation Community Values](https://github.com/o3de/community/blob/main/values.md) | Learn about the type of open source culture we'd like to foster. |

Commit message:

Initial Remote Content Docs (#2420)
* Initial Remote Content Docs

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add versions_data doc

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add missing descriptions

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add contribution info for official remote repo

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* move anatomy section to separate page

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* remove old gem repositories page

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix o3de repo cli commands

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address PR feedback

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address PR feedback

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

content/docs/contributing/_index.md, after:

---
linkTitle: Contribute
menuTitle: Contribute
title: Contributor Guide for Open 3D Engine
description: Want to contribute to O3DE? This guide will get you started with code and documentation contributions.
weight: 100
menu_uuid: contributing
guide_img: "/images/contributing/guide_img.png"
primary: false
---

Have you ever wanted to contribute to an open-source 3D development engine?

This guide will help you understand the overall organization of the **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** project, and direct you to the best places to get started contributing to the code and documentation. You'll be able to pick up issues, write code to fix them, and get your work reviewed and merged.

|  Section                          | Description                                    |
|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| [Roadmaps](roadmaps) | Stay up-to-date with the latest development updates and find out what's coming next in the O3DE roadmaps. |
| [Contribute to O3DE Code](to-code/) | Learn how to contribute to O3DE's codebase.  |
| [Contribute to O3DE Documentation](to-docs/) | Learn how to contribute to O3DE's technical documentation. |
| [Contribute to O3DE Security](security/) | Learn how to keep O3DE secure. |
| [Contribute to the O3DE Official Remote Repository](to-official-remote-repository/) | Learn how to contribute to the official O3DE remote repository.  |
| [Versioning and Release Terminology](release-versioning-and-terms) | Understand the code and binary package versioning format and release terminology. |
| [Code of Conduct](code-of-conduct) | Learn what our expectations for community engagement are. |

## Related sections

|  Section                          | Description                                    |
|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| [Open 3D Foundation Community Values](https://github.com/o3de/community/blob/main/values.md) | Learn about the type of open source culture we'd like to foster. |
