content/docs/user-guide/_index.md, before:

---
linkTitle: User Guide
menuTitle: User Guide
title: Open 3D Engine (O3DE) User Guide
description: Explore the features of O3DE, understand how they work, and learn how to use them in your project.
weight: 300
toc: true
menu_uuid: user
guide_img: "/images/user-guide/guide_img.png"
primary: true
---

Welcome to the O3DE User Guide! This documentation contains information and guidance for users working on an O3DE project.

Read about [the features provided by Open 3D Engine](/docs/welcome-guide/features-intro).

| Documentation                        | Details                                                                                                                                                 |
|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Assets](assets/) | Learn about O3DE's asset management tools and pipeline.                                                                                                 |
| [Build](build/) | Learn how to use the CMake generator with O3DE projects to generate IDE projects and build them.                                                        |
| [Components](components/) | Learn about the components that add functionality to your entities in O3DE.                                                                             |
| [Editor](editor/) | Learn how to use the O3DE Editor.                                                                                                                       |
| [Settings Registry](settings/) | Learn how to use the Settings Registry to maintain settings and configurations for O3DE applications and tools.                                         |
| [Gems](gems/) | Learn about the Gems that extend O3DE.                                                                                                                  |
| [Interactivity](interactivity/) | Learn how to simulate robots, implement player navigation controls and other world interaction methods.                                                 |
| [Networking](networking/) | Learn about the low-level networking stack in O3DE and the multiplayer framework that uses it to provide multiplayer features in games and simulations. |
| [Optimization](optimization/) | Learn how to optimize your O3DE project. |
| [Packaging](packaging/) | Learn how to package your O3DE-based product for release. |
| [Programming](programming/) |  Learn about core engine programming concepts in O3DE. |
| [Project Configuration](project-config/) | Learn how to configure and customize your O3DE project. |
| [Scripting](scripting/) | Learn about Script Canvas, O3DE's visual scripting solution, and Lua to create logic and behaviors in your project. |
| [Testing](testing/) | Learn how to test your O3DE components and project. |
| [Visualization](visualization/) | Learn about Atom-based visualization components in O3DE. |

## Reference documentation

| Documentation                        | Details |
|--------------------------------------|---------|
| [Glossary](appendix/glossary) | Common terms and concepts used in O3DE development. |
| [Asset file types](assets/asset-types/) | Reference for the asset file types supported in O3DE by default. |
| [Console variable reference](appendix/cvars/) | Reference for the O3DE console variables (CVARs). |
| [Log files](appendix/log-files) | Learn where to find common log files in O3DE. |

## Related documentation

| Documentation                        | Details |
|--------------------------------------|---------|
| [Tutorials and Examples](/docs/learning-guide/) | Check out video tutorials, written tutorials, and samples to practice the concepts and techniques that you learn from the sections of the User Guide. |

Commit message:

Initial Remote Content Docs (#2420)
* Initial Remote Content Docs

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add versions_data doc

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add missing descriptions

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add contribution info for official remote repo

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* move anatomy section to separate page

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* remove old gem repositories page

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix o3de repo cli commands

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address PR feedback

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address PR feedback

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Alex Peterson <26804013+AMZN-alexpete@users.noreply.github.com>

content/docs/user-guide/_index.md, after:

---
linkTitle: User Guide
menuTitle: User Guide
title: Open 3D Engine (O3DE) User Guide
description: Explore the features of O3DE, understand how they work, and learn how to use them in your project.
weight: 300
toc: true
menu_uuid: user
guide_img: "/images/user-guide/guide_img.png"
primary: true
---

Welcome to the O3DE User Guide! This documentation contains information and guidance for users working on an O3DE project.

Read about [the features provided by Open 3D Engine](/docs/welcome-guide/features-intro).

| Documentation                        | Details                                                                                                                                                 |
|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Assets](assets/) | Learn about O3DE's asset management tools and pipeline.                                                                                                 |
| [Build](build/) | Learn how to use the CMake generator with O3DE projects to generate IDE projects and build them.                                                        |
| [Components](components/) | Learn about the components that add functionality to your entities in O3DE.                                                                             |
| [Editor](editor/) | Learn how to use the O3DE Editor.                                                                                                                       |
| [Settings Registry](settings/) | Learn how to use the Settings Registry to maintain settings and configurations for O3DE applications and tools.                                         |
| [Gems](gems/) | Learn about the Gems that extend O3DE.                                                                                                                  |
| [Interactivity](interactivity/) | Learn how to simulate robots, implement player navigation controls and other world interaction methods.                                                 |
| [Networking](networking/) | Learn about the low-level networking stack in O3DE and the multiplayer framework that uses it to provide multiplayer features in games and simulations. |
| [Optimization](optimization/) | Learn how to optimize your O3DE project. |
| [Packaging](packaging/) | Learn how to package your O3DE-based product for release. |
| [Programming](programming/) |  Learn about core engine programming concepts in O3DE. |
| [Project Configuration](project-config/) | Learn how to configure and customize your O3DE project. |
| [Remote Content](remote-content/) | Learn about Remote Content, a built-in way to share and download Gems, Projects and Templates. |
| [Scripting](scripting/) | Learn about Script Canvas, O3DE's visual scripting solution, and Lua to create logic and behaviors in your project. |
| [Testing](testing/) | Learn how to test your O3DE components and project. |
| [Visualization](visualization/) | Learn about Atom-based visualization components in O3DE. |

## Reference documentation

| Documentation                        | Details |
|--------------------------------------|---------|
| [Glossary](appendix/glossary) | Common terms and concepts used in O3DE development. |
| [Asset file types](assets/asset-types/) | Reference for the asset file types supported in O3DE by default. |
| [Console variable reference](appendix/cvars/) | Reference for the O3DE console variables (CVARs). |
| [Log files](appendix/log-files) | Learn where to find common log files in O3DE. |

## Related documentation

| Documentation                        | Details |
|--------------------------------------|---------|
| [Tutorials and Examples](/docs/learning-guide/) | Check out video tutorials, written tutorials, and samples to practice the concepts and techniques that you learn from the sections of the User Guide. |
